doc/connectivity/networking/api/mqtt_sn.rst, before:

.. _mqtt_sn_socket_interface:

MQTT-SN
#######

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Overview
********

MQTT-SN is a variant of the well-known MQTT protocol - see :ref:`mqtt_socket_interface`.

In contrast to MQTT, MQTT-SN does not require a TCP transport, but is designed to be used
over any message-based transport. Originally, it was mainly created with ZigBee in mind,
but others like Bluetooth, UDP or even a UART can be used just as well.

Zephyr provides an MQTT-SN client library built on top of BSD sockets API. The
library is configurable at a per-client basis, with support for MQTT-SN version
1.2. The Zephyr MQTT-SN implementation can be used with any message-based transport,
but support for UDP is already built-in.

MQTT-SN clients require an MQTT-SN gateway to connect to. These gateways translate between
MQTT-SN and MQTT. The Eclipse Paho project offers an implementation of a MQTT-SN gateway, but
others are available too.
https://www.eclipse.org/paho/index.php?page=components/mqtt-sn-transparent-gateway/index.php

The MQTT-SN spec v1.2 can be found here:
https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/66091/MQTT-SN_spec_v1.2.pdf

Sample usage
************

To create an MQTT-SN client, a client context structure and buffers need to be
defined:

.. code-block:: c

   /* Buffers for MQTT client. */
   static uint8_t rx_buffer[256];
   static uint8_t tx_buffer[256];

   /* MQTT-SN client context */
   static struct mqtt_sn_client client;

Multiple MQTT-SN client instances can be created in the application and managed
independently. Additionally, a structure for the transport is needed as well.
The library already comes with an example implementation for UDP.

.. code-block:: c

   /* MQTT Broker address information. */
   static struct mqtt_sn_transport tp;

The MQTT-SN library will inform clients about certain events using a callback.

.. code-block:: c

   static void evt_cb(struct mqtt_sn_client *client,
                      const struct mqtt_sn_evt *evt)
   {
      switch(evt->type) {
      {
         /* Handle events here. */
      }
   }

For a list of possible events, see :ref:`mqtt_sn_api_reference`.

The client context structure needs to be initialized and set up before it can be
used. An example configuration for UDP transport is shown below:

.. code-block:: c

   struct mqtt_sn_data client_id = MQTT_SN_DATA_STRING_LITERAL("ZEPHYR");
   struct sockaddr_in gateway = {0};

   uint8_t tx_buf[256];
   uint8_t rx_buf[256];

   mqtt_sn_transport_udp_init(&tp, (struct sockaddr*)&gateway, sizeof((gateway)));

   mqtt_sn_client_init(&client, &client_id, &tp.tp, evt_cb, tx_buf, sizeof(tx_buf), rx_buf, sizeof(rx_buf));

After the configuration is set up, the MQTT-SN client can connect to the gateway.
While the MQTT-SN protocol offers functionality to discover gateways through an
advertisement mechanism, this is not implemented yet in the library.

Call the ``mqtt_sn_connect`` function, which will send a ``CONNECT`` message.
The application should periodically call the ``mqtt_sn_input`` function to process
the response received. The appliation does not have to call ``mqtt_sn_input`` if it
knows that no data has been received (e.g. when using Bluetooth). Note that
``mqtt_sn_input`` is a non-blocking function, if the transport struct contains a
``poll`` compatible function pointer.
If the connection was successful, ``MQTT_SN_EVT_CONNECTED`` will be notified to the
application through the callback function.

.. code-block:: c

	err = mqtt_sn_connect(&client, false, true);
	__ASSERT(err == 0, "mqtt_sn_connect() failed %d", err);

	while (1) {
		mqtt_sn_input(&client);
		if (connected) {
			mqtt_sn_publish(&client, MQTT_SN_QOS_0, &topic_p, false, &pubdata);
		}
		k_sleep(K_MSEC(500));
	}

In the above code snippet, the event handler function should set the ``connected``
flag upon a successful connection. If the connection fails at the MQTT level
or a timeout occurs, the connection will be aborted.

After the connection is established, an application needs to call ``mqtt_input``
function periodically to process incoming data. Connection upkeep, on the other hand,
is done automatically using a k_work item.
If a MQTT message is received, an MQTT callback function will be called and an
appropriate event notified.

The connection can be closed by calling the ``mqtt_sn_disconnect`` function. This
has no effect on the transport, however. If you want to close the transport (e.g.
the socket), call ``mqtt_sn_client_deinit``, which will deinit the transport as well.

Zephyr provides sample code utilizing the MQTT-SN client API. See
:zephyr:code-sample:`mqtt-sn-publisher` for more information.

Deviations from the standard
****************************

Certain parts of the protocol are not yet supported in the library.
* Pre-defined topic IDs
* QoS -1 - it's most useful with predefined topics
* Gateway discovery using ADVERTISE, SEARCHGW and GWINFO messages.
* Setting the will topic and message after the initial connect
* Forwarder Encapsulation

.. _mqtt_sn_api_reference:

API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: mqtt_sn_socket

Commit message:

net: doc: Reference the Kconfig option that enables app libraries
Several application protocol libraries documentation missed information
on how can they be enabled (i. e. missed info about associated Kconfig
symbol). This commit fixes it.

Signed-off-by: Robert Lubos <robert.lubos@nordicsemi.no>

doc/connectivity/networking/api/mqtt_sn.rst, after:

.. _mqtt_sn_socket_interface:

MQTT-SN
#######

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Overview
********

MQTT-SN is a variant of the well-known MQTT protocol - see :ref:`mqtt_socket_interface`.

In contrast to MQTT, MQTT-SN does not require a TCP transport, but is designed to be used
over any message-based transport. Originally, it was mainly created with ZigBee in mind,
but others like Bluetooth, UDP or even a UART can be used just as well.

Zephyr provides an MQTT-SN client library built on top of BSD sockets API. The
library can be enabled with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_SN_LIB` Kconfig option
and is configurable at a per-client basis, with support for MQTT-SN version
1.2. The Zephyr MQTT-SN implementation can be used with any message-based transport,
but support for UDP is already built-in.

MQTT-SN clients require an MQTT-SN gateway to connect to. These gateways translate between
MQTT-SN and MQTT. The Eclipse Paho project offers an implementation of a MQTT-SN gateway, but
others are available too.
https://www.eclipse.org/paho/index.php?page=components/mqtt-sn-transparent-gateway/index.php

The MQTT-SN spec v1.2 can be found here:
https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/66091/MQTT-SN_spec_v1.2.pdf

Sample usage
************

To create an MQTT-SN client, a client context structure and buffers need to be
defined:

.. code-block:: c

   /* Buffers for MQTT client. */
   static uint8_t rx_buffer[256];
   static uint8_t tx_buffer[256];

   /* MQTT-SN client context */
   static struct mqtt_sn_client client;

Multiple MQTT-SN client instances can be created in the application and managed
independently. Additionally, a structure for the transport is needed as well.
The library already comes with an example implementation for UDP.

.. code-block:: c

   /* MQTT Broker address information. */
   static struct mqtt_sn_transport tp;

The MQTT-SN library will inform clients about certain events using a callback.

.. code-block:: c

   static void evt_cb(struct mqtt_sn_client *client,
                      const struct mqtt_sn_evt *evt)
   {
      switch(evt->type) {
      {
         /* Handle events here. */
      }
   }

For a list of possible events, see :ref:`mqtt_sn_api_reference`.

The client context structure needs to be initialized and set up before it can be
used. An example configuration for UDP transport is shown below:

.. code-block:: c

   struct mqtt_sn_data client_id = MQTT_SN_DATA_STRING_LITERAL("ZEPHYR");
   struct sockaddr_in gateway = {0};

   uint8_t tx_buf[256];
   uint8_t rx_buf[256];

   mqtt_sn_transport_udp_init(&tp, (struct sockaddr*)&gateway, sizeof((gateway)));

   mqtt_sn_client_init(&client, &client_id, &tp.tp, evt_cb, tx_buf, sizeof(tx_buf), rx_buf, sizeof(rx_buf));

After the configuration is set up, the MQTT-SN client can connect to the gateway.
While the MQTT-SN protocol offers functionality to discover gateways through an
advertisement mechanism, this is not implemented yet in the library.

Call the ``mqtt_sn_connect`` function, which will send a ``CONNECT`` message.
The application should periodically call the ``mqtt_sn_input`` function to process
the response received. The appliation does not have to call ``mqtt_sn_input`` if it
knows that no data has been received (e.g. when using Bluetooth). Note that
``mqtt_sn_input`` is a non-blocking function, if the transport struct contains a
``poll`` compatible function pointer.
If the connection was successful, ``MQTT_SN_EVT_CONNECTED`` will be notified to the
application through the callback function.

.. code-block:: c

	err = mqtt_sn_connect(&client, false, true);
	__ASSERT(err == 0, "mqtt_sn_connect() failed %d", err);

	while (1) {
		mqtt_sn_input(&client);
		if (connected) {
			mqtt_sn_publish(&client, MQTT_SN_QOS_0, &topic_p, false, &pubdata);
		}
		k_sleep(K_MSEC(500));
	}

In the above code snippet, the event handler function should set the ``connected``
flag upon a successful connection. If the connection fails at the MQTT level
or a timeout occurs, the connection will be aborted.

After the connection is established, an application needs to call ``mqtt_input``
function periodically to process incoming data. Connection upkeep, on the other hand,
is done automatically using a k_work item.
If a MQTT message is received, an MQTT callback function will be called and an
appropriate event notified.

The connection can be closed by calling the ``mqtt_sn_disconnect`` function. This
has no effect on the transport, however. If you want to close the transport (e.g.
the socket), call ``mqtt_sn_client_deinit``, which will deinit the transport as well.

Zephyr provides sample code utilizing the MQTT-SN client API. See
:zephyr:code-sample:`mqtt-sn-publisher` for more information.

Deviations from the standard
****************************

Certain parts of the protocol are not yet supported in the library.
* Pre-defined topic IDs
* QoS -1 - it's most useful with predefined topics
* Gateway discovery using ADVERTISE, SEARCHGW and GWINFO messages.
* Setting the will topic and message after the initial connect
* Forwarder Encapsulation

.. _mqtt_sn_api_reference:

API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: mqtt_sn_socket
